Add docs: Existing contraces (#605)
nervosnetwork/docs.nervos.org: website/docs/common-scripts/07-single-use-lock.mdx

---
id: single-use-lock
title: Single Use Lock
---

# Single Use Lock

> 
> Purpose: Can only be unlocked by consuming a specific outpoint.
> 
> Part of [ckb-proxy-locks](https://github.com/ckb-devrel/ckb-proxy-locks)
> 
> ## How It Works
> 
> Takes an outpoint (36 bytes) as argument
> Can only be unlocked if the specified outpoint appears in transaction inputs
> Provides one-time unlock capability
> 
> ### Arguments:
> 
> args[0..36]: The specific outpoint that must be consumed
> 
> ### Use Cases
> 
> One-time payments
> Voucher systems
> Single-use authorizations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Single Use Lock](https://github.com/ckb-devrel/ckb-proxy-locks/tree/main/contracts/single-use-lock) is a [Lock Script](/docs/tech-explanation/lock-script) that allows unlocking only when a specific [OutPoint](/docs/tech-explanation/outpoint) is consumed. 

It is part of the [ckb-proxy-locks](https://github.com/ckb-devrel/ckb-proxy-locks).

## How It Works

- Takes an outpoint (36 bytes) as an argument
```bash
args[0..36]: The specific OutPoint that must be consumed
```
- Passes validation only if the specific OutPoint appears in the transaction inputs. This ensures the Cell locked with this Script can only be unlocked once. 

### Use Cases

- One-time payments
- Voucher systems
- Single-use authorizations
```
